icy water squeezes your chest so you
can't take a deep breath
you hear people yelling around it's late
at night
and the endless sea blends with the
black starry sky
you're scared and cold the ship you were
just aboard
is going down into the depths of the
ocean
people who have been in a shipwreck
often remain afraid of water for the
rest of their lives
but the woman whose story you'll hear
survived not one
and not even two but three ship
disasters
and continued to work on cruise liners
as a stewardess
meet violet jessup miss unsinkable
her childhood can be described in one
word
short she had to grow up quickly to take
care of her siblings
violet was the oldest of nine children
life became
even more difficult when she became very
ill
the doctors were sure she wouldn't
survive but she did
at a young age she moved to england with
her mother
took care of her sisters and attended a
convent school
her mother worked as a stewardess at sea
and when she fell sick
young violet followed in her footsteps
but because of her youth and beauty
no one wanted to hire her they thought
she would distract
passengers and crew violet didn't give
up though
and came to one of the interviews in her
worst clothes
and with unkempt hair she wanted to show
she was ready for hard work on the ship
and she had it the girl was hired
the first two years passed quietly but
then
a series of incredible fortunes began or
misfortunes depending on how you looked
at it
in 1910 violet got a job on the most
luxurious liner of the time
the royal mail ship olympic the ship
sailed across the atlantic
from england to america the engineers
didn't focus on the speed of the vessel
but on its comfort violet worked on the
ship
and was paid just two pounds a month the
same as 200 pounds today hard work on
the ship's deck from morning to night
didn't frighten violet she loved the job
she liked to talk to people and enjoyed
the beautiful views of the atlantic
so on september 20th 1911
violet worked on the deck as usual the
sea was calm
and the weather was excellent nothing
boated ill
the ship sailed through the solent
strait which separates the isle of wight
from the british mainland
at this moment the british military
cruiser
hawk appeared ahead it should have
passed by the olympic
but something went wrong the ships went
straight at each other
the olympics captain tried to maneuver
to avoid a collision
but failed the hawks bow was designed
specifically to ram other ships at that
time
it rammed the olympic boom
the liner shuttered and the people
screamed in fear and panic
the ship had a huge hole in the
starboard
violet fell from the force of the blow
it seemed one of the biggest liners of
its time
was going to sink but luckily that
wasn't the case
both ships stayed afloat and nobody got
hurt
this time fortune was on violet's side
the accident on the ship didn't frighten
the young woman she didn't give it a
second thought
and continued to work as a stewardess in
april 1912
she took a job on the best unsinkable
ship of the time
where she was supposed to serve vips
initially
she didn't want to work on this ship but
her friends persuaded her
and thus she boarded the titanic
on april 10 1912 and left the port of
southampton
for better or worse the first days of
work were peaceful
but on the fourth day of the voyage one
of the most notorious disasters in the
world
struck violet was resting in her cabin
she was almost asleep when she felt the
jolt
at that moment she was called to the
upper deck
when the titanic hit the iceberg almost
no one panicked
no one believed that the unsinkable ship
could
actually sink at the time when the
ship's hold was being filled with water
everybody was calm on the upper decks
violet along with other stewards was
present during the evacuation to the
lifeboats
women and children were evacuated first
then one of the ship's officers ordered
violet
to get into a boat to show the other
women it was perfectly safe
when she did others followed and someone
suddenly thrust
a swaddled baby into her hands without a
second thought
violet hugged the child to her chest to
keep it warm
while the titanic was sinking she didn't
let go of the baby
until her lifeboat was picked up by the
carpathia
a ship that came to the rescue already
on board the ship
a woman ran up to her she didn't say a
word
and snatched the child from violet's
hands
violet thought the woman was the baby's
mother so she didn't try to get it back
she was too freezing and numb to think
how strange it was
that this woman hadn't said thank you to
her baby's savior
many years later violet would be
reminded of this child
under unusual circumstances after
successfully surviving
one of the most terrible shipwrecks in
history violet continued to work at sea
against all odds in 1916
she took a job as a nurse on the
hospital ship britannic
a sister to both the olympic and the
titanic which sailed in the aegean sea
on november 21st the ship took a route
that it had already sailed several times
but on that particular day it was out of
luck
the britannic hit an underwater mine
violet managed to survive the third
shipwreck in her life
this rescue wasn't as easy as the
previous two though
after the explosion the huge britannic
began to sink
quickly it took less than an hour for
the ship to go
down completely violet didn't have time
to board a lifeboat
so she jumped overboard into the cold
water
there she swam to the closest lifeboat
and got on
but the rescue turned into a new danger
the ship's propellers were still working
they were spinning in the water
and pulling the boat toward them violet
jumped off the boat
just in time to escape the propellers
but her
ordeal was far from over already in the
water
she was pulled under the ship's keel and
hit her head
the only thing that saved her from
losing consciousness
and probably her life was her thick hair
in the end violet got away from the
engine
and was picked up by another boat for
the next few years
violet was plagued by headaches when she
finally went to the doctor
he told her she was incredibly lucky as
a result of the incident on the
britannic
she had a fracture in her skull three
disasters that violet managed to survive
didn't stop her she continued to work on
cruise liners until 1950.
she cruised the world twice on the
luxury liner belgian land
fortunately the string of mishaps ended
and violet
was never shipwrecked again in 1950
she moved to great ashfield in suffolk
county
she'd worked at sea for almost 42 years
content with her career she settled in a
large cottage
built in the 16th century but a year
into her retirement
she received a strange phone call it was
late at night
violet was asleep when the phone rang
she picked up the phone
there was a woman's voice on the other
end the lady didn't introduce herself
and asked right away excuse me was it
you who saved a baby on the titanic
violet answered yes it was me
the strange woman said she laughed and
hung up
violet told her friend about this
strange call
he assumed that some kids were playing a
joke on her
but violet had never told anyone about
the baby
before that call according to the old
records
the only child who was on the boat with
violet was a boy
but those same records also said the boy
had been saved
by another passenger it's still unknown
who the baby that violet rescued was
and so for surviving three different
wrecks
on three different shifts she was aptly
dubbed
miss unsinkable